## DS221 (Sep 2024) Assignment 1

### Total Points: 20

* **Q1 posted on 2024-09-06**
* **Q2,Q3 posted on 2024-09-11**
* **Due on 2024-09-20 11:59 PM**

### INSTRUCTIONS
All problems must be solved using C++ and compile/execute correctly on the Rigel cluster. You may test and debug in your local machine but the final evaluation will be done on Rigel.

All performance numbers given in your report should be on Rigel compute nodes. Profiling experiments should be run during your assigned timeslot to avoid performance interference. We should be able to reproduce your performance results.

You are required to actively use Copilot to solve the programming part of the problem, to generate the solution code and to test code. You are responsible for checking the accuracy of the code, including edge cases.

You MUST NOT collaborate with other students or take help from other (non-copilot) online sources to solve any parts of the problem, including code, prompts, algorithms, time/space complexity, etc.

You are provided a main.cpp file which calls helper functions for tasks such as file reading. By default, this uses the sample input and output provided by us. You can edit the file paths in main.cpp if you need to change the input files. You must not change anything else in main.cpp. We will run our own test cases using this file, so any modifications beyond the allowed changes could affect your evaluation. You are also not allowed to change the other files used for file operations (fileWriter.h, fileIterator.h).

All functions you write should be added to the user_code.h file. You must adhere to the function signatures specified in user_code.h. You are allowed to add additional helper functions to user_code.h if necessary, as long as the main function signatures remain unchanged.

DO NOT PRINT ANYTHING TO CONSOLE from code you write in the final submission. Your code will be auto-graded. So any deviations from instructions will cause grading to fail and you will get zero points.

### SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS
*TBD*

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### PROBLEM CONTEXT

You are given details about product hashtags and customer purchases of products on an eCommerce website. Each product (int) is assigned a set of one or more hashtags (strings). Each customer (int) has purchased one or more products (ints). Each product has an associated price (float). The same product may have been purchased multiple times.

### QUESTIONS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### Q1.
Group customers into clusters based on the similarity of their primary interests. A customer who purchases a product is associated with all its hashtags. Each purchase adds those hashtags to the customer's interest list. The number of occurrences of a hashtag in their interest list reflects its popularity. A customer's top-k most frequent hashtags in descending order represent their primary interests. Two customers are said to have similar interests if their primary interest hashtag lists exactly match. The goal is to identify and group customers with similar interests. **(9 points = 4 points for correct code + 4 points for report and analysis + 1 point for copilot survey and inline prompt documentation)**

***(A)*** Complete the code template you are provided. Ensure that the code is correct for different inputs. You are provided one sample, but need to generate others using the oracle link provided below. Provide in-line documentation of the prompts used in different parts of your code by prefixing the line with '//#PROMPT#'.

* INPUT: Three iterators over (1) Products and their hashtags (2) Customers and their purchases and (3) products and their prices, and *k*, the number of top hashtags to use for grouping.

* OUTPUT: Return a list of customers (int), one per clustered group.
The order of groups in the output file does not matter.

* Function signature ``void groupCustomersByHashtags(fileIterator& hashtags, fileIterator& purchases, fileIterator& prices, int k, string outputFilePath)``

Sample input and output for sanity check:  
* tests_Q1/input_product.csv  
* tests_Q1/input_customer.csv  
* tests_Q1/input_prices.csv  
* tests_Q1/output_groups.csv  

You should generate additional input datasets to verify the correctness of your code. You can use this oracle link to generate valid outputs for any given input: https://codecheck.io/files/24090204303mnr174bmc8t0ja307paa78a6

***(B)*** Submit a detailed report with experiment results, plots (with proper axes, titles, units, etc.), observations and analysis of why you are observing these results. Report the time and space complexity for your solution to Q1. In particular, separately report the time taken and worst/best/expected time complexity for reading and populating your data structure, for finding the clusters, and for writing the output to file. Also report the space complexity and memory usage for your algorithm. Show experimental evidence using different input sizes to support your claims. Document how your performed your observations and any tools you used.

***(C)*** Complete the copilot survey: *TBD*

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### Q2.
The *average spend* of a group indicates how much they each spend on average on their purchases. Given a list of customers, find the average of the total expenses that they incur for all the products that they have purchased. Report this average spend for each group that is provided to you. **(4 points for correct code)** 

* INPUT: A list of customers belonging to a group, given as vector <int>, and an iterator over the products purchased and the prices of products. 

* OUPUT: Return an average of the total expenses of customers in the given list. (float)

* Function signature: ``float calculateGroupAverageExpense(vector<int> customerList, fileIterator& purchases, fileIterator& prices)``

Sample input and output for sanity check (k=2):  
* tests_Q2/input_customer.csv
* tests_Q2/input_prices.csv
* tests_Q2/input_groups.csv
* tests_Q2/output_groupavgprice.csv

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### Q3.
Products may get new reviews and as a result their hashtags may change over time. Optimize the customer grouping function in Q1 to support dynamic insertions of new hashtag(s) to a product and consequently re-evaluating the clustering of customers based on the updated interest list. Hashtags are only added and not removed for any product. Also, the purchases that customers have made do not change. Report the expected time and space complexity of the optimized grouping function, and compare this with the empirical space and time complexity observed for various number of dynamic insertions. Discuss if your approach to solving the problem changed due to the need for dynamic updates. **(7 points = 4 points for correct code + 3 points for report and analysis)**

* INPUT: Three iterators over (1) Products and their hashtags, (2) Customers and their purchases, and (3) Products and their prices. These are fixed and do not vary.  
Dynamic insertions: This function will be called with a vector of strings that represent `m` products that are being updated with new hashtags. Each string is a product and its new hastag(s). We will read these updates from an input file and pass it to you as a vector. 

* OUTPUT:  Perform the same grouping operation as Q1 and return a new list of customers (int), one per clustered group. 

* Function signature: ``void groupCustomersByHashtagsDynamic(fileIterator& hashtags, fileIterator& purchases, fileIterator& prices, string newHastags, int k, string outputFilePath)``

Sample input and output for sanity check (k=2, m=5):
* tests_Q3/input_product.csv
* tests_Q3/input_customer.csv
* tests_Q3/input_prices.csv
* tests_Q3/input_newhashtags.csv
* tests_Q3/output_dynamicgroups.csv


